Description

As I had mentioned in one of my blog posts, I wanted to create something that cannot be experienced in reality. While a lot of people do experience claustrophobia in different avenues of life, I tried to add some extra elements that may be hard to implement in real life. For example, it is significantly harder to simulate walls moving inward in all directions in real life (because of physics problems). In VR, the constrains can be manipulated and eliminated if necessary. Skulls that appear in thin air and fall down are also something that is harder to implement in real life. That being said, there is a fine line between reality and something that would seem unreal. To make experiences effective, I think they should be realistic - i.e, grounded in what we consider real. Else, however crazy our the experiences we design may seem, they wouldn't be believable, simply because the user would be conscious of the fact that this could never happen in real life. 
The project aims to make the user feel a sense of helplessness. 
By placing the user in a room that appears to be moving inward to collapse on the user. The user is allowed to pound against the ground to try and escape (simulated my a mouse click here). Although this slows down the speed of the walls moving into the user, it simultaneously drops a skull or bone from the top of the room. Even though the user is allowed to slow down the speed of the walls closing in, the speed of the walls never goes below a threshold. Thus, the user can never escape, despite attempts that would be rendered futile. 
The skulls and bones are spawned to add a heightened sense of fear which might get the user thinking about the possible history of where the skulls might have come from, and the past that the environment may hold. 
Overall, in the environment, the user should feel sort of scared and helpless. By giving the user a possible way to slow down the walls/escape, but not really letting them escape, the sense of helplessness is hopefully heightened. 
